2020-03-17 화

Unit1 Social Mobile App

A : Where do you want to grab lunch?
B : Oh, you know what, I downloaded a coupon and some discount vouchers from the social mobile app. Do you remember that place that just opened up around the corner? Well, how about giving that place a shot and going somewhere new for a change?
A : I wish you wouldn’t always use those coupons. We already have too many of them and we hardly even look at those.
B : It’s not like I always buy them, but sometimes it’s the only way to find out about new places that open up.
A : I genuinely don’t like using coupons on the social app. It’s straight up advertisement and we usually end up getting worse service than paying customers.
B : Do you really feel that way? I think I can benefit quite a lot by using them. For example, I can get discounts on Kid’s Cafe,  musement parks, and performances with these coupons. Also, with these apps, I can get the latest information on dining and entertainment. Anyway, what about lunch? Do you want to give that new restaurant a chance or what?
A : Not really. I don’t think I can trust an establishment that has to resort to using coupons. I prefer word of mouth recommendations or reviews on food blogs.
B : Don’t be so condescending. You invariably go for image as opposed to substance. How can you have faith in the reviews in those blogs anyway? Most restaurants pay to have them written so how objective can they possibly be?
A : Well, you definitely make a good point there. Yet, I did find out about our favorite restaurant from a blog review. Actually, why don’t we just go there for lunch? Their food is always spot on and the service is great as well.

새로운 표현
1. Where do you want to grab lunch?
2. Do you remember that place that just opened up around the corner?
3. How about giving that place a shot and going somewhere new for a change?
4. I wish you wouldn’t always use those coupons.
5. We already have too many of them and we hardly even look at
those.
6. I genuinely don’t like using coupons on the social app.
7. It’s straight up advertisement and we usually end up getting
worse service than paying customers.
8. Do you really feel that way?
9. I think I can benefit quite a lot by using them.
10. I don’t think I can trust an establishment that has to resort to using coupons.
11. I prefer word of mouth recommendations or reviews on food blogs.
12. Don’t be so condescending.
13. You invariably go for image as opposed to substance.
14. Most restaurants pay to have them written so how objective can they possibly be?
15. Well, you definitely make a good point there.
16. Yet, I did find out about our favorite restaurant from a blog review.
17. Their food is always spot on and the service is great as well.



2020-03-19 목

Unit2 Organic and Natural Food

A : A brand new organic food store just opened up recently in the mall. It’s where I’ve been going shopping for pretty much everything for my baby son.
B : Are you referring to the one that uses those paper bags and glass bottles?
A : Yeah. I am obsessed with that store and my son is really into everything I’ve been getting from there.
B : Sorry for interrupting you again, but I stopped by that store recently and I think their stuff is overpriced and overrated.
A : I don’t know why you would say that. The prices are only a little higher and..
B : Please, a little higher? They are almost twice as much as what you would pay at a regular grocery store. Also, I don’t really believe that all the products are organic and natural. It is impossible. A few days ago, I watched a documentary that said most organic and natural  products are not real even though the package states otherwise.
A : Hold on. I think you are missing the point. Their products use organic ingredients that are better for our health and our environment. Although all the products are not genuine, I think these products are better than ordinary products.
B : Oh, come on, you are getting carried away just like everyone else seems to be doing. I really doubt that buying overpriced products and foods is going to have much of an impact. The products aren’t even  very good. I tried some so called “natural” ice cream once and it was  awful.
A : Some natural products might not be that good, but that doesn’t mean that they all are bad. (unfriendly and not liking something:)
B : Words like natural, organic, and green are on so many products now and they don’t seem worthwhile to me.
A : I don’t know why you are so hostile. Personally, I will get a lot of peace of mind from these products. Also, I’ll keep buying more organic food for my baby son.

새로운 표현
1. A brand new organic food store just opened up recently in the mall.
2. It’s where I’ve been going shopping for pretty much everything for my baby son.
3. Are you referring to the one that uses those paper bags and glass bottles?
4. Yeah. I am obsessed with that store and my son is really into everything I’ve been getting from there.
5. Sorry for interrupting you again, but I stopped by that store recently and I think their stuff is overpriced and overrated.
6. I don’t know why you would say that.
7. They are almost twice as much as what you would pay at a regular grocery store.
8. A few days ago, I watched a documentary that said most organic and natural products are not real even though the package states otherwise.
9. Although all the products are not genuine, I think these products are better than ordinary products.
10. Oh, come on, you are getting carried away just like everyone else seems to be doing.
11. Words like natural, organic, and green are on so many products now and they don’t seem worthwhile to me.
12. I don’t know why you are so hostile.
13. Personally, I will get a lot of peace of mind from these products.
14. Also, I’ll keep buying more organic food for my baby son.



2020-03-21 토

Unit3 Changing a Course 

A : (On the phone) Hi, I am calling in reference to your English cookery course.
B : Sure, could I just get your name, please?
A : Certainly, it’s Jackie Grant.
B : Okay, if you could just hang on the line a minute while I pull your name up. A-ha, here it is. How can I help you?
A : Well, yesterday I had signed up for your general English course via your website. Then, as I was checking out the rest of your website, I stumbled upon your English cookery course. I was wondering if it would be possible to change courses.
B : There are only a few spots left in that course and you would have to come in to take a placement test, however, as this is a specialized course, there is an oral component to the level test. You would have to come in and take a level test in person.
A : Is there any way that I could take the test on the phone?
B : Sorry, it’s mandatory that the placement test be taken in person. In addition to the oral component, there is also a written task that must be completed within a time limit.
A : Okay I see what you’re saying. I really don’t want to be a pain, however, it’s just that I’m really busy this month and can’t make it up to the school for the placement test. Is there any way that I could come in on Saturday to take the test?
B : Unfortunately, the dilemma would be that, if we leave it to the last minute like that, the course could easily fill up. Oh, you know what, could you hang on a sec? Let me just check. Okay, what we could do is to provisionally transfer the course fee over as a deposit.
A : I really appreciate that. Just one last question, if I don’t get into this course, would I lose my tuition fee?
B : I’m afraid we can’t refund the deposit, but you could apply it to another course.
A : That’s a relief.

새로운 표현
1. Hi, I am calling in reference to your English cookery course.
2. Sure, could I just get your name, please?
3. Okay, if you could just hang on the line a minute while I pull your name up.
4. Then, as I was checking out the rest of your website, I stumbled upon your English cookery course.
5. I was wondering if it would be possible to change courses.
6. There are only a few spots left in that course and you would have to come in to take a placement test, however, as this is a specialized course, there is an oral component to the level test.
7. You would have to come in and take a level test in person.
8. Is there any way that I could take the test on the phone?
9. Sorry, it’s mandatory that the placement test be taken in person. 
10. In addition to the oral component, there is also a written task that must be completed within a time limit.
11.  I really don’t want to be a pain, however, it’s just that I’m really busy this month and can’t make it up to the school for the placement test.
12. Is there any way that I could come in on Saturday to take the test?
13. Unfortunately, the dilemma would be that, if we leave it to the last minute like that, the course could easily fill up.
14. Oh, you know what, could you hang on a sec?
15. Okay, what we could do is to provisionally transfer the course fee over as a deposit.
16. Just one last question, if I don’t get into this course, would I lose my tuition fee?



2020-03-24 화

Unit4 Borrowing Money

A : Dad, I need to ask you something.
B : Sure son, what’s on your mind?
A : Well, the truth is I’m broke again. Do you think you could lend me 1000 dollars just until the end of the month?
B : Are you kidding me, how could you possibly be broke again? David, when you decided to move in with Jin and Nadia, you said you could make ends meet. But this is already the second time that you had to ask me for help! What’s going on?
A : I know dad, I am really sorry about this. However, my car broke down and I really have to get it fixed. Also, these days everything costs an arm and a leg around here.
B : David, I realize that the cost of living continues to go up, but I think it’s time that you learned how to manage your money better. First, you need to make a list of all your earned income and all your expenses. Then, it’s really self-explanatory, just don’t spend more than you earn. Is it really that hard of a concept to grasp?
A : Dad, the problem is exactly that! My expenses are constantly exceeding income. That’s why I am asking to borrow money from you.
B : Then maybe you should work more hours at McDonalds.
A : I already work 17 hours a week. How can I study, work, and find time to hang out with my friends? When you were my age, you were already married, working, and going to school. But I am not.
B : Take it easy David! I really don’t want to argue with you. If I were you, I’d just think about this very carefully and call me back in a few days. In the meantime, you’d better find a way to pay to get your car fixed.
A : Alright dad.

새로운 표현
1. Sure son, what’s on your mind?
2. Well, the truth is I’m broke again.
3. Do you think you could lend me 1000 dollars just until the end of the month?
4. Are you kidding me, how could you possibly be broke again? 
5. David, when you decided to move in with Jin and Nadia, you said you could make ends meet.
6. But this is already the second time that you had to ask me for help!
7. However, my car broke down and I really have to get it fixed.
8. Also, these days everything costs an arm and a leg around here.
9. David, I realize that the cost of living continues to go up, but I think it’s time that you learned how to manage your money better. 
10. Then, it’s really self-explanatory, just don’t spend more than you earn.
11. Is it really that hard of a concept to grasp?
12. I really don’t want to argue with you
13. In the meantime, you’d better find a way to pay to get your car fixed.

2020-03-26

Unit1 Parents Are the Best Educators

 Main Question
1) Do you agree on the notion that parents are the best educators for their children? Explain why or why not.
	I disagree on the notion above. 
	To begin with, I'd like to emphasize that most parents don't know everything about their child. It's the first time for both of them to have a child so they are lack of information on caregiving and how to educate their child in the right way.
	Also, parents need to keep working for maintaining their life(->Parents need to make a living for their family.). If they don't work to earn some money, they'll end up starving and their child too. So it's unavoidably necessary for them to have some time to be separated.

2) Who do you consider more challenging to raise, a daughter or a son? Why?
	From my perspective, a daughter is considered more challenging to raise. (개를키우다 have a dog)
	This is not a sexual discrmination, but unfortuately, female's possibility of being a victim of a sexual harassment or sexual crime is higher than male's froma statistical point of view. (From a ADJ standpoint, from the standpoint of a noun)
	Sexual crime is the most disastrous thing in the world which tears victim's spirit into thousands of pieces. In short, it is more chllenging to raise a daughter in this world which is full of uncertainty.

3) What are some things that you would not allow your children to do?
	The very last thing that I'll allow my children to do is to violate laws. Laws or rules is the most essential (fundamental) guideline that civilized people should follow. 
Socialization which is the another name of civilization is the duty of parents. In the process of educating my children, the thing I'd like to do is to make my children as citizens who have common sense.

 Follow-up Questions
1. How did your parents raise you?
	They taught me the importance of making or building a plan for everything.
2. What aspects do you want to follow or respect from your parents?
	consider me as an individual or make me independent by allowing for me to have a faith 

3. How would you like to raise your children?
	

2020-03-31

Unit2 Smoking

Free Talking Questions
 Main Question
1) Many governments have substantially increased taxes on tobacco in order to discourage smoking. Do you think it is the proper role of government to legislate to protect citizens from the harmful effects of their own lifestyle decisions?
yes, From my perspective, it is the role of government to encourage its citizens to quit smoking based on utilitarianism which is an ethical theory that determines right from wrong by focusing on outcomes. Even though it is the right for smoking people to choose their own lifestyle and eventually get the poisonous effects of cigarette, that doesn't mean that they can have a harmful effect on non-smokers by smoking.

2) What is the best way to quit smoking?
One of the best ways to quit smoking is to show the video of someone smoking who he or she loves, for example, a daughter or a son. They do know how cigarettes have a harmful effect on their body, but they just keep smoking because it's not easy to quit smoking by themselve's will. But if they see his or her lover or loved one smoking, they start to think they need to stop it so they quit smoking too.

3) How do you feel about people smoking on the street?
less civilized or lack of morality, savage...

Follow-up Questions
1. Do you smoke? If yes, tell me what makes you keep smoking. If no, what do you think of smoking cigarettes?
I'd rather say that smoking cigarettes is the worst choice you can make in your life to alleivate stress.

2. The number of smoking rooms in offices and airports and non-smoking establishments is increasing. Do you think it is effective?


3. Do you think smoking should be highly regulated or banned? or should people be allowed to make their own adult decisions?


4. Besides cigarettes, what else can be poisonous or potentially lethal?
There are so many things which can be poisonous or potentially lethal to humankind. Especially, Drugs and alcohol are widely known as the representatives of those. Crime


2020-04-02

Unit5 Asking about a New Place

A : (On the phone) Nadia! How are you? How’s everything been with you?
B : All is well here, besides being a bit jet-lagged still.
A : I can imagine. What exactly is the time difference over there?
B : It’s 14 hours ahead. I am finding it so hard to get used to. Last night, I couldn’t fall asleep for the life of me. Then, today I practically fell asleep at work in the middle of a meeting.
A : I am really sorry to hear that. How’s your job going by the way?
B : It’s a bit early to really tell, but I think it’s going to work out really well. It’s a pretty big company, but everyone’s been extremely kind and they have really gone out of their way to help me out. I’ve been trying to get acquainted with the way everything works.
A : And what about Singapore? How is it? Have you seen much of the city yet?
B : I’ve seen a bit of it. It just seems like such a huge, busy city. I don’t see how I’ll ever find my way around it.
A : Tell me about it. Big cities can seem really intimidating at first. Is it anything like Dallas?
B : No, it’s nothing like Dallas. It’s like nowhere else I’ve ever been - huge buildings, underground shopping centers, lots of buses, taxis, and people; so many people- but it’s so clean. No litter on the streets or anything.

새로운 표현
1. How’s everything been with you?
2. All is well here, besides being a bit jet-lagged still.
3. It’s 14 hours ahead. I am finding it so hard to get used to.
4. Last night, I couldn’t fall asleep for the life of me. (however hard I try; even if my life depended on it.)
5. It’s a bit early to really tell, but I think it’s going to work out really well.
6. It’s a pretty big company, but everyone’s been extremely kind and they have really gone out of their way to help me out.(to try very hard to do something, especially for someone else)
7. I’ve been trying to get acquainted with the way everything works.
8. Have you seen much of the city yet?
9. I don’t see how I’ll ever find my way around it.
(find a/(one's) way around (someone or something)
	① Literally, to successfully navigate and learn where things are in a particular area or place.
		The new office building is so big that it took me weeks to find my way around.
	② To successfully evade something. ...
	③ To devise a way to do something, in spite of problems or setbacks.)
10. Big cities can seem really intimidating at first. Is it anything like Dallas? (making you feel frightened or nervous:)
11. It’s like nowhere else I’ve ever been - huge buildings, underground shopping centers, lots of buses, taxis, and people; so many people- but it’s so clean.
12. No litter on the streets or anything. (small pieces of rubbish that have been left lying on the ground in public places:)

2020-04-02
Unit3 Eternal Life
Free Talking Questions
 Main Question
1) Do you believe in eternal life or another life after death?
윤회, rebirth, reincarnation, transmigration

2) Some people donate their organs for transplants when they die. What do you think of this?
honorable people

3) Do you believe in the existence of ghosts/spirits on Earth? Why or why not?


Follow-up Questions
1. Describe an occasion when you attended a funeral. Whose funeral did you go to?


2. How would you pre-arrange your own funeral?


3. In the story "Christmas present", Scrooge is surprised to see his tomb. What would you most like people to remember about you after you die?
breakthrough(an important discovery or event that helps to improve a situation or provide an answer to a problem:)

4. Why is it important to you?

it was the most abtract topic I've ever had haha

2020-04-03
Unit6 Arranging an Appointment.
Dialogue Role Playing
A : (On the phone) Hey, what’s up? I am calling to make sure that you are still going to the class reunion. You’re still going, right?
B : Yeah, this time I think I am actually going to make it. I just hope I don’t bump into anybody I don’t want to see, you know what I mean?
A : Don’t worry. It’ll be fun, I promise. Why don’t we meet up somewhere beforehand?
B : That’s a great idea. Let’s do that for sure. So, I guess it’ll be you, me and Louis? I heard Louis's coming this time, too. But, I really don’t care to see Jack anymore.
A : Don’t worry. I heard Jack had to hop over to Singapore for business. Anyway, where are you thinking we should meet up? Possibly a restaurant somewhere?
B : A restaurant sounds good. What are you into? Thai? Spanish?
A : Hmm, oh, there’s that really good Chinese restaurant we used to go to on Sullivan Street. Remember? I think it was called China House, right?
B : Yep that’s the one. I am on my way up to New York right now, so I’ll be getting into the city from a local road. Any idea where I can park?
A : There’s a parking lot right across from the restaurant. Where are you staying?
B : At the New York Hilton. I got a really great deal online. What about you?
A : I’m at Bayside Hotel. I think that’s just around the corner from yours.
B : Sounds perfect! When are you getting in?
A : Well, I’ve got a direct flight from Seattle, luckily. I think my plane takes off around 9 in the morning and gets in around 5 o’clock New York time. But by the time I get my bags and check into the hotel, it’ll probably be around 6:00. Why don’t I stop by the New York Hilton around 6:30? I’ll meet you in the lobby.

새로운 표현
1. I am calling to make sure that you are still going to the class reunion. You’re still going, right?
2. Yeah, this time I think I am actually going to make it. I just hope I don’t bump into anybody I don’t want to see, you know what I mean?
3. Don’t worry. It’ll be fun, I promise. Why don’t we meet up somewhere beforehand?
4.  I heard Jack had to hop over to Singapore for business. Anyway, where are you thinking we should meet up? Possibly a restaurant somewhere?
5. What are you into? Thai? Spanish?
6. I am on my way up to New York right now, so I’ll be getting into the city from a local road. Any idea where I can park?
7. Where are you staying?
8. I think that’s just around the corner from yours.
9. When are you getting in?
10. Well, I’ve got a direct flight from Seattle, luckily. I think my plane takes off around 9 in the morning and gets in around 5 o’clock New York time. But by the time I get my bags and check into the hotel, it’ll probably be around 6:00. Why don’t I stop by the New York Hilton around 6:30? I’ll meet you in the lobby.

2020-04-06

Unit7 Taking a Class Online

A : I’m taking a Chinese class online and you know what, I am actually glad the regular face-to-face classes were full and I was forced to take this class. Believe it or not, I actually like this class better.
B : Really? How come?
A : Well, for one, it’s so convenient. I mean I don’t need to worry about fitting it into my schedule. All I have to do is just get online and do my homework whenever, no matter where I am or what I am doing.
B : Whenever? Don’t you have any deadlines?
A : Yeah, we have to post the homework and participate in group discussions by a certain date. But I don’t feel pressured, you know, the way you do in a regular class.
B : I get what you’re saying. I’m not always ready to participate in class. I just heard that around 1,000 of our college students were taking classes online with about 400 of them taking the classes from overseas.
A : Yeah. And another advantage is the diversity. My classmates are from all over Canada and even from abroad. There’s someone from America and people from Cuba and Australia. And get this. The instructor is in Beijing.
B : Wow. That’s a lot of different time zones! It seems like the whole world wants to learn Chinese these days. But how does she correct your pronunciation? Don’t you need the face-to-face contact?
A : No, she listens to our voice recordings and gives us feedback. And once a week we talk on Skype. We’ve all become friends and chat on Facebook all the time, too. And we’ve all agreed to stay in touch after the course ends and meet next year in China.

새로운 표현
1. 